so you're doing you're doing all this
while you're not even completely
finished your medical training so this
really is your introduction into modern
medicine as it's practiced currently I
can't believe I can't imagine how
demoralizing that would be but it's for
that reason that I did it right it's
because of I was seeing what was
happening of course someone has to do
something about it because if I want to
pass on a career a profession to my
children a world to my children I have
to do it when it's the most difficult
thing to do right it's like what option
did I have so of course you know um but
yeah it's kind of funny to say that
because it was on the day of my
graduation from surgical training that
the next part of the story where it gets
gets really wild um because five weeks
later the day I'm graduating from
surgical training one of the most
important days of my life right you
spend all this time sacrificing you all
these important events so it's a Friday
June 23rd we have the ceremony in a
couple of hours about to meet with my
family my wife and I are just getting
ready in our apartment when all of a
sudden uh I get an aggressive knock on
the door I think man like that's weird
like who could this be so I shuffle over
I open it and standing outside are two
federal agents with Health and Human
Services they show me their Badges and
tell me that they're investigating a
case regarding medical records so in
that moment everything just you freeze
right your mind just shuts down and but
in the back of my mind like you know in
like my cerebellum somewhere you know I
I just knew they were there to make an
example out of me because I was
Anonymous we were able to tell this
story a bill got passed another
whistleblower came out they had to shut
down the program if I was able to do
this how many other people were able to
do this right it was a challenge to the
dominant political ideology of course I
knew that's kind of what was going on
but you freak out in a moment so I
invite them in so we sit down and they
so you figured that out right away you
you basically figured that out right
away how the hell did they know who you
were given that the story had broke
anonymously well they had most likely um
uh used a huge amount of federal
resources to pursue this investigation
in that time to find out it was me they
had to mobilize the agents uh um do an
investigation right find all their
evidence surveil me to find out when I
was going to be home surveil me to find
out when I was graduating find out where
my address was and then come to my home
a few hours before I was graduating so
you know it's like when you have time
that do you think they do you think they
timed that to coincide with your
graduation and also who is they as far
as you know like who obviously the
hospital wouldn't be very happy with you
because they had to shut down this
program and and then there are people
pulling the strings behind the scenes to
keep the program going but who do you
believe or perhaps know was behind the
investigation into the whistleblowing
well you know who runs Health and Human
Services and the FBI and the the um uh
you know different legal organizations
right that that want to see this pursued
um so yeah you have the most powerful
people in the country who I believe are
IND this and I think the timing was was
exactly what they were intending because
they have to use the value of that
accomplishment the meaning of that day
as their method to extort the threat
right they they they have to use that as
the extortion of for my compliance
because uh they know I'm starting my
career in order to preserve that they
they need to do that so that I comply
with them I admit to something that
never happened so that I can participate
in some phony investigation and then
close the door permanently for other
whistleblowers in the country but as
they're coming to find out you know they
knocked on the wrong door because uh
that day we decided to fight but you
know when they were setting up their
their you know little tripod to do an
interview my wife comes out she was
getting ready and luckily my wife is a
brilliant attorney she's actually a
assistant us attorney uh at the
Department of Justice so my my wife
works at the Department of Justice she's
a lawyer in the Northern District of
Texas um she had been hired at the time
and that's an important Point later in
the story just kind of put that in the
back of your mind but she comes out and
we both look at each other and we say
bad idea we go to our bedroom and we
both say you know what not a good idea
to speak with them without an attorney
present we go back out and we tell them
you know we won't speak with them
further they say okay they pack up their
things before leaving they hand me a
Target letter and it's a piece of paper
that says uh I am a potential Target of
a criminal investigation and it's signed
by a assistant us attorney in the
southern district of Texas so we knew
that a few minutes after that door
opened you know the door closes our
lives are going to be changed forever
because we had a choice just like before
you know do we fight back do I fight
back right um you know do I submit to
this ideology do I uh uh compromise
everything I believe in you know
everything I believe my profession to be
you know do I um uh you know compromise
what was happening to these children so
there was there was no question there
was no way I would allow that to happen
so um you know I decid to fight that day
and we've been fighting ever since what
do you think what do you think what do
you think they wanted from you like they
presumed I imagine or knew that you were
The Whistleblower at that point and they
came you using these very sophisticated
I would say and well thought through
intimidation tactics extraordinarily
well-timed I would say sadistically
well-timed and um but you've already
broken the story and so you've
done most of the damage that you could
do arguably what do you think they
wanted from you at that point fear and
compliance because they needed right
it's like it's it's not the IC justice
system right where it's these people who
are who are actually pursuing the truth
in order to obtain Justice this is the
exact opposite when you become a target
of a corrupt justice system
investigation people believe that when
you comply when you give in to them
you're actually going to make it better
for yourself but it's the exact opposite
because it's their virtue it's the truth
that that they are targeting it's it's
uh so you believe that your
participation right if you're innocent
will exonerate you but it's the exact
opposite it's because you're because
you're innocent because you're virtuous
that they're targeting you in the first
place and I knew that at that point
because I was able to see all these
investigations over the previous couple
of years where this was happening so at
that point I already had the framework
in my mind like this is a corrupt
Department of Justice what kind of in
what kind of Investigations are you
referring to that you had seen over the
previous years if if you think about the
the main uh political investigations
into uh political opponents of the
democratic party over the past four
years so for example if you look at um
uh anyone who spoke out during covid uh
if you look at Douglas Mackie if you
look at uh the abortion badia yeah badar
if you look at uh the abortion
protesters who are being sent to prison
for 10 20 years for the phas ACT for
sitting in front of a a um a clinic
right you know your compliance does not
exonerate you right it's because your
because of your innocence because of
your virtue that you're being targeted
in the first place so I knew that it was
obvious so I still don't exactly
understand what okay say they wanted
your compliance but compliance with
regard to what for you to retract your
accusations you're telling me that you
knew that complying wasn't going to help
you but I still don't understand exactly
what they H to ACC
other than to intimidate you and to stop
other whistleblowers is that the gist of
it and you know that's that's actually a
really good question because um
compliance towards what uh I believe
they they needed me to comply right in
order to admit to a crime to gravel at
their feet to issue some meaning you
know some some fake apology for doing
the right thing so basically tell
outline for us what exactly the charges
were so I so they brought these charges
forward to you and the presumption was
that possibly you could admit to them
hypothetically that would mean things
would go easier for you which is
completely not true but then it would
also discredit you and serve as an
object warning to anybody who was going
to pull the curtain back in the future
okay so what exactly did they accuse you
of so at that point completely unclear
and that where that's where it goes into
the next part of the story but I think
it's it's yeah it's the point where they
needed to make an example out of me they
needed to make me into a criminal right
because if they could do that of course
they shut the door permanently to every
other whistleblower in the Health Care
system in our country yeah they shut it
per well and they discredit you
too exactly right and that's that's
going to be very convenient because you
know you you could imagine that the that
Ken Paxton for example and the rest of
the Tex Republicans aren't going to take
the rebellion of the Texas Children's
Hospital and their lies lying down and
so you play a pivotal role in that their
best strategy is to discredit you and
turn you into a criminal obviously okay
so so continue with the story let it let
it continue to unfold yep so uh after
that right what do we do right so my
wife and I we had the graduation we go
on our
patio and we celebrate so we put on
Vietnam war music we open a ball of
champagne
and we celebrate because at that point
what do you do um and uh well good for
you so you went on with the celebration
of course yeah yeah huh yeah no we
had and and it was kind of one of those
moments where you look back you're like
oh my God like that's completely insane
but like what else could you do right
when when the federal government comes
knock on your door right you have to
fight back well I also think when you're
shocked when you're shocked like that
you tend to revert to what would be
typical and habitual Behavior you know
cuz you don't know what else to do I
mean what the hell do you do when the
feds come knocking at your door because
you've blown the whistle on people in
your in your children's hospital who are
mutilating kids like that's a nightmare
that's really Beyond Comprehension and
so it's not like you're going to know
how to react yeah and and it was at that
point that where it's like once you
cross the the Rubicon you know you're no
you're you're never going to go back to
that life that that you become this new
person like you're entering this unknown
world where you it's you don't know what
it's going to be right it's it's like
complete darkness but you know you have
faith it's the right place to go so um
we got in touch with uh our attorneys
right through Christopher Roff of
brilliant people uh Marcel Burke she's
amazing she's a fighter so we knew she
was the right person for the case
[Music]